Oracle Technology Network Development and Distribution License Terms for
Instant Client

Export Controls on the Programs Selecting the "Accept License Agreement"
button is a confirmation of your agreement that you comply, now and during the
trial term, with each of the following statements:

-You are not a citizen, national, or resident of, and are not under control
of, the government of Cuba, Iran, Sudan, Libya, North Korea, Syria, nor any
country to which the United States has prohibited export. -You will not
download or otherwise export or re-export the Programs, directly or
indirectly, to the above mentioned countries nor to citizens, nationals or
residents of those countries. -You are not listed on the United States
Department of Treasury lists of Specially Designated Nationals, Specially
Designated Terrorists, and Specially Designated Narcotic Traffickers, nor are
you listed on the United States Department of Commerce Table of Denial Orders.

You will not download or otherwise export or re-export the Programs, directly
or indirectly, to persons on the above mentioned lists.

You will not use the Programs for, and will not allow the Programs to be used
for, any purposes prohibited by United States law, including, without
limitation, for the development, design, manufacture or production of nuclear,
chemical or biological weapons of mass destruction.

EXPORT RESTRICTIONS You agree that U.S. export control laws and other
applicable export and import laws govern your use of the programs, including
technical data; additional information can be found on OracleÂ®'s Global Trade
Compliance web site (http://www.oracle.com/products/export).

You agree that neither the programs nor any direct product thereof will be
exported, directly, or indirectly, in violation of these laws, or will be used
for any purpose prohibited by these laws including, without limitation,
nuclear, chemical, or biological weapons proliferation.

Oracle Employees: Under no circumstances are Oracle Employees authorized to
download software for the purpose of distributing it to customers. Oracle
products are available to employees for internal use or demonstration purposes
only. In keeping with Oracle's trade compliance obligations under U.S. and
applicable multilateral law, failure to comply with this policy could result
in disciplinary action up to and including termination.

Note: You are bound by the Oracle Technology Network ("OTN") License Agreement
terms. The OTN License Agreement terms also apply to all updates you receive
under your Technology Track subscription.

The OTN License Agreement terms below supercede any shrinkwrap license on the
OTN Technology Track software CDs and previous OTN License terms (including
the Oracle Program License as modified by the OTN Program Use Certificate).

Oracle Technology Network Development and Distribution License Agreement for
Instant Client

"We," "us," and "our" refers to Oracle America, Inc. "You" and "your" refers
to the individual or entity that wishes to use the Programs from Oracle under
this Agreement. "Programs" refers to the Software Products referenced below
that you wish to download and use and Program documentation. "License" refers
to your right to use the Programs and Program documentation under the terms of
this Agreement. The substantive and procedural laws of California govern this
Agreement. You and Oracle agree to submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of,
and venue in, the courts of San Francisco, San Mateo, or Santa Clara counties
in California in any dispute arising out of or relating to this Agreement. We
are willing to license the Programs to you only upon the condition that you
accept all of the terms contained in this Agreement. Read the terms carefully
and select the "Accept" button at the bottom of the page to confirm your
acceptance. If you are not willing to be bound by these terms, select the "Do
Not Accept" button and the registration process will not continue.

Software Product - Instant Client

License Rights

License. We grant you a non-exclusive right and license to use the Programs
solely for your business purposes and development and testing purposes,
subject to the terms of this Agreement. You may allow third parties to use the
Programs, subject to the terms of this Agreement, provided such third party
use is for your business operations only.

Distribution License We grant you a non-exclusive right and license to
distribute the Programs, provided that you do not charge your end users for
use of the Programs. Your distribution of such Programs shall at a minimum
include the following terms in an executed license agreement between you and
the end user that: (1) restrict the use of the Programs to the business
operations of the end user; (2) prohibit (a) the end user from assigning,
giving, or transferring the Programs or an interest in them to another
individual or entity (and if your end user grants a security interest in the
Programs, the secured party has no right to use or transfer the Programs); (b)
make the Programs available in any manner to any third party for use in the
third party's business operations (unless such access is expressly permitted
for the specific program license or materials from the services you have
acquired); and (c) title to the Programs from passing to the end user or any
other party; (3) prohibit the reverse engineering (unless required by law for
interoperability), disassembly or decompilation of the Programs and prohibit
duplication of the Programs except for a sufficient number of copies of each
Program for the end user's licensed use and one copy of each Program media;
(4) disclaim, to the extent permitted by applicable law, our liability for any
damages, whether direct, indirect, incidental, or consequential, arising from
the use of the Programs; (5) require the end user at the termination of the
Agreement, to discontinue use and destroy or return to you all copies of the
Programs and documentation; (6) prohibit publication of any results of
benchmark tests run on the Programs; (7) require the end user to comply fully
with all relevant export laws and regulations of the United States and other
applicable export and import laws to assure that neither the Programs, nor any
direct product thereof, are exported, directly or indirectly, in violation of
applicable laws; (8) do not require us to perform any obligations or incur any
liability not previously agreed to between you and us; (9) permit you to audit
your end user's use of the Programs or to assign your right to audit the end
user's use of the Programs to us; (10) designate us as a third party
beneficiary of the end user license agreement; (11) include terms consistent
with those contained in the sections of this Agreement entitled "Disclaimer of
Warranties and Exclusive Remedies," "No Technical Support," "End of
Agreement," "Relationship Between the Parties," and "Open Source"; and (11)
exclude the application of the Uniform Computer Information Transactions Act.

You may allow your end users to permit third parties to use the Programs on
such end user's behalf for the purposes set forth in the end user license
agreement, subject to the terms of such agreement. You shall be financially
responsible for all claims and damages to us caused by your failure to include
the required contractual terms set forth above in each end user license
agreement between you and an end user. We are a third party beneficiary of any
end user license agreement between you and the end user, but do not assume any
of your obligations thereunder, and you agree that you will not enter into any
end user license agreement that excludes us as a third party beneficiary and
will inform your end users of our rights.

If you want to use the Programs for any purpose other than as expressly
permitted under this Agreement you must contact us to obtain the appropriate
license. We may audit your use of the Programs. Program documentation is
either shipped with the Programs, or documentation may be accessed online at
http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/indexes/documentation/index.html.

You agree to: (a) defend and indemnify us against all claims and damages
caused by your distribution of the Programs in breach of this Agreement and/or
failure to include the required contractual provisions in your end user
agreement as stated above; (b) keep executed end user agreements and records
of end user information including name, address, date of distribution and
identity of Programs distributed; (c) allow us to inspect your end user
agreements and records upon request; and, (d) enforce the terms of your end
user agreements so as to effect a timely cure of any end user breach, and to
notify us of any breach of the terms.

Ownership and Restrictions We retain all ownership and intellectual property
rights in the Programs. You may make a sufficient number of copies of the
Programs for the licensed use and one copy of the Programs for backup
purposes.

You may not: -use the Programs for any purpose other than as provided above;
-charge your end users for use of the Programs; -remove or modify any Program
markings or any notice of our proprietary rights; -assign this agreement or
give the Programs, Program access or an interest in the Programs to any
individual or entity except as provided under this agreement; -cause or permit
reverse engineering (unless required by law for interoperability), disassembly
or decompilation of the Programs; -disclose results of any Program benchmark
tests without our prior consent.

Export You agree that U.S. export control laws and other applicable export and
import laws govern your use of the Programs, including technical data;
additional information can be found on Oracle's Global Trade Compliance web
site located at http://www.oracle.com/products/export/index.html. You agree
that neither the Programs nor any direct product thereof will be exported,
directly, or indirectly, in violation of these laws, or will be used for any
purpose prohibited by these laws including, without limitation, nuclear,
chemical, or biological weapons proliferation.

Disclaimer of Warranty and Exclusive Remedies

THE PROGRAMS ARE PROVIDED "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND. WE FURTHER
DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS AND IMPLIED, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION,
ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR
NONINFRINGEMENT.

IN NO EVENT SHALL WE BE LIABLE FOR ANY INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, PUNITIVE
OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, OR DAMAGES FOR LOSS OF PROFITS, REVENUE, DATA OR
DATA USE, INCURRED BY YOU OR ANY THIRD PARTY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION IN CONTRACT
OR TORT, EVEN IF WE HAVE BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. OUR
ENTIRE LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES HEREUNDER SHALL IN NO EVENT EXCEED ONE THOUSAND
DOLLARS (U.S. $1,000).

No Technical Support Our technical support organization will not provide
technical support, phone support, or updates to you or end users for the
Programs licensed under this agreement.

Restricted Rights If you distribute a license to the United States government,
the Programs, including documentation, shall be considered commercial computer
software and you will place a legend, in addition to applicable copyright
notices, on the documentation, and on the media label, substantially similar
to the following: NOTICE OF RESTRICTED RIGHTS "Programs delivered subject to
the DOD FAR Supplement are 'commercial computer software' and use,
duplication, and disclosure of the programs, including documentation, shall be
subject to the licensing restrictions set forth in the applicable Oracle
license agreement. Otherwise, programs delivered subject to the Federal
Acquisition Regulations are 'restricted computer software' and use,
duplication, and disclosure of the programs, including documentation, shall be
subject to the restrictions in FAR 52.227-19, Commercial Computer
Software-Restricted Rights (June 1987). Oracle Corporation, 500 Oracle
Parkway, Redwood City, CA 94065."

End of Agreement You may terminate this Agreement by destroying all copies of
the Programs. We have the right to terminate your right to use the Programs if
you fail to comply with any of the terms of this Agreement, in which case you
shall destroy all copies of the Programs.

Relationship Between the Parties The relationship between you and us is that
of licensee/licensor. Neither party will represent that it has any authority
to assume or create any obligation, express or implied, on behalf of the other
party, nor to represent the other party as agent, employee, franchisee, or in
any other capacity. Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to limit
either party's right to independently develop or distribute software that is
functionally similar to the other party's products, so long as proprietary
information of the other party is not included in such software.

Open Source "Open Source" software - software available without charge for
use, modification and distribution - is often licensed under terms that
require the user to make the user's modifications to the Open Source software
or any software that the user 'combines' with the Open Source software freely
available in source code form. If you use Open Source software in conjunction
with the Programs, you must ensure that your use does not: (i) create, or
purport to create, obligations of us with respect to the Oracle Programs; or
(ii) grant, or purport to grant, to any third party any rights to or
immunities under our intellectual property or proprietary rights in the Oracle
Programs. For example, you may not develop a software program using an Oracle
Program and an Open Source program where such use results in a program file(s)
that contains code from both the Oracle Program and the Open Source program
(including without limitation libraries) if the Open Source program is
licensed under a license that requires any "modifications" be made freely
available. You also may not combine the Oracle Program with programs licensed
under the GNU General Public License ("GPL") in any manner that could cause,
or could be interpreted or asserted to cause, the Oracle Program or any
modifications thereto to become subject to the terms of the GPL.

Entire Agreement You agree that this Agreement is the complete agreement for
the Programs and licenses, and this Agreement supersedes all prior or
contemporaneous Agreements or representations. If any term of this Agreement
is found to be invalid or unenforceable, the remaining provisions will remain
effective.

Last updated: 01/24/08
